README.md, before:

# nixos-raspberry-pi-build

Create **SD card** images for **Raspberry Pi's** with **NixOS**.

**Note**  
`flake` based configuration may be implemented to handle different `instances` (or systems), build steps, etc.

---

# setup

### install

```sh
git clone https://github.com/JimJ92120/nixos-raspberry-pi-build.git
```

### config

#### `config/private.nix`

`config/private.nix` is meant for common yet private configuration such as credentials, networking, etc that shouldn't be public.
File is **ignored** (see `.gitignore`) by default and is only meant to be an example.

# build

`./build.sh` allows to create an `image.img` from a given `configuration.nix` file (`$CONFIG_PATH`), then install it on a given **SD Card** (`$SD_CARD_PATH`), targetting a specific `host` system (`$TARGET_SYSTEM`).  
`image.nix` will be available in the `build/` directory.

```sh
./build.sh $CONFIG_PATH $SD_CARD_PATH $TARGET_SYSTEM

# e.g
./build.sh ./configuration.nix /dev/sda aarch64-linux

# show example
./build.sh --help
```

Commit message:

docs(README): added config.txt notes

README.md, after:

# nixos-raspberry-pi-build

Create **SD card** images for **Raspberry Pi's** with **NixOS**.

**Note**  
`flake` based configuration may be implemented to handle different `instances` (or systems), build steps, etc.

---

# setup

### install

```sh
git clone https://github.com/JimJ92120/nixos-raspberry-pi-build.git
```

### config

#### config/private.nix

`config/private.nix` is meant for common yet private configuration such as credentials, networking, etc that shouldn't be public.
File is **ignored** (see `.gitignore`) by default and is only meant to be an example.

#### config.txt

`config.txt` can be added through `config._pi.configTxt` option and will be copied during the initial image build step.  
Defined variables will be appended to the existing `config.txt` (default from image build).

On the host `/boot/FIRMWARE` will be mounted and files can be edited with `root` permission.

```sh
# edit `config.txt` on build machine, with SD card still mounted
sudo mount /dev/disk/by-label/FIRMWARE /mnt
sudo nano /mnt/config.txt

# edit `config.txt` on host, after first boot
sudo nano /boot/FIRMWARE/config.txt
```

# build

`./build.sh` allows to create an `image.img` from a given `configuration.nix` file (`$CONFIG_PATH`), then install it on a given **SD Card** (`$SD_CARD_PATH`), targetting a specific `host` system (`$TARGET_SYSTEM`).  
`image.nix` will be available in the `build/` directory.

```sh
./build.sh $CONFIG_PATH $SD_CARD_PATH $TARGET_SYSTEM

# e.g
./build.sh ./configuration.nix /dev/sda aarch64-linux

# show example
./build.sh --help
```
